---
title: "Palindrome Partitioning II (LC132)"
date: 2021-02-18
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - algorithm
  - leetcode
  - dynamic programming
---

1. Experience:
    0. I first thought about find the relationship of minimum cuts between strings of various lengths, it's not clear to me what the relationship is. And I don't know if there's such relationship. So I decided to work out the brutal force solution to understand better the problem. 
    1. I have to try the brutal force first. 
        * Given a string with length `n`, I can split it into two substrings at `n` different locations, starting from position `1`, to `n`. The last one splits the string into itself and an empty string, so we don't miss the case where the string itself is a palindrome.
        * So I first check if the whole string itself is a palindrome, if so, return a minimum cut of 0.
        * Otherwise, I recursively call the helper function on the left and right substrings. I add the cuts for both substrings and 1 to get the number of cuts for this split pattern.
        * Clearly I can use a cache for this recursive solution, where we save the minimum cuts for a given location `(left, right)` in a dictionary.
        * However, this solution got a TLE on the `26th` test case with a length of `500`.
        * This solution has a complexity of exponential, as we are checking all the substrings of all lengths ranging from `1` to `n`. So we have `C(n, 0) + C(n, 1) + ... + C(n, n-1)` in total possible cases.
    2. We don't want to test for every possible splits for a given string. How should I do it?
        * I then thought about what happens when a substring is a palindrome and what happens when we split the string into a palindrome and something else. I realized that we only need to split the string into at least one palindrome. If both substrings are not palindrome, this won't give us a minimum cut, as there'll always be extra cut required for non palindrome substring. 
        * So we don't have to split a given string at every possible location, we can just split it whenever that location gives us a left palindrome and/or a right palindrome.
        * This brought up the question of whether we can find out all the possible splits beforehand such that when we do the recursive call, we don't have to check whether the current split generates a palindrome or not, as the test for palindrome takes `O(n)` time complexity in general.
    3. So I started with a two dimensional dynamic programming table, with element `dp[i][j] = True` represents that the substring `s[i:j+1]` is a palindrome.
        * Since the general algorithm to check if a string is palindrome takes `O(n)`, I don't want to use it, as it'll take `O(n^3)` to generate the table. So I would like to find the relationship between the entries in the table.
        * At the beginning, it's not clear to me how to find the relationship between `dp[i][j]` and `dp[j+1][n]` or between `dp[i][j]` and `dp[i][j+1]` as I was moving horizontally along the dynamic table. 
        * After many iterations, I suddenly found out that I should move along the diagonal direction instead, i.e. `dp[i][j]` vs. `dp[i+1][j-1]`, since when we move to the right, we always need to check if the new character is the same as the first character, if so, we then only need check if the middle part is a palindrome or not, which has been processed before if we move diagonally in the dynamic table.
        * This takes `O(n^2)` to populate the whole dynamic table. 
    4. Once I have the dynamic table, I can just use it in the recursive call, and skip the locations where there's no palindrome in both substrings. This helps me to pass the `26th` test case. It however got a TLE on the `28th` test case with a length of `1462` characters but only requires `1` cut. 
        * I made a local optimization to pass the `26th` test case. Instead of checking the split locations from `1` to `n-1`, I reversed it from `n-1` to `1` as a minimum cut mostly likely happens when we split the string on the farest location with palindrome substring first.
        * Another optimization is to check the cut from left substring first, if it's larger than current minimum cut, we don't have to call the function on the right substring anymore. This doesn't help much though.      
    5. After I wrote out the recursive solution. It happened that I can build another dynamic table which counts the minimum cuts from index `i` to `j`. Although I still have to check for all the sub-splits to see which one gives the minimum cut, where their minimum cuts have been processed before. This doesn't improve the performance though, as the solution didn't pass the `28th` test case. This solution is `O(n^3)` here.
    6. The main problem here is clear: how do we find the minimum cut without checking all possible splits?

2. How did I or Other people get the solution? 
    1. After reading the solutions, It turns out that other people are utilizing the information of whether `s[i:j]` is palindrome smarter.
    2. Think of this, from previous discussion, we already know that we should always split/cut at a location where we can get a palindrome. If at location `i`, we know that `s[i:j]` is a palindrome, how do we get the minimum cuts from `i` to the end of the string? Only if we know the minimum cuts from `j`, right? then the minimum cut `cuts[i] = cuts[j] + 1`. When we combine this with the process to build the `dp` table, we get a solution of `O(n^2)`.
    3. I didn't think about going backward. I think I should assume that I know the minimum cut at one position (to either end) first, then combine with the information of palindrome substrings.
    4. I thought I need a 2D table for the minimum cuts, but 1D is actually enough.
    5. I don't have to walk through the 2D table diagonally, I can also do it backwards (bottom up)

3. Different solutions
    1. 


4. Mistakes

5. Problem Type
    * Dynamic programming

6. Similar Problems



7. Template



Resources:
* [132. Palindrome Partitioning II][LeetCode Link]

[LeetCode Link]: https://leetcode.com/problems/palindrome-partitioning-ii/