---
title: "296. Best Meeting Point"
date: 2021-02-21
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - algorithm
  - leetcode
---

1. Experience:
    1. I wrote out the brutal force solution first, which is solution #2. In the solution, I first get the list of all house entries that equal to 1. Then I loop through each grid point, and compute the distance from all houses to 1 to get the minimum distance. It is of course TLE with time complexity of `O(m^2n^2)`.
    2. To improve the time complexity, I had to think harder if there's better way to compute the distance. 
    3. I started to look at 1D array first. By checking some examples, I noticed that the optimal meeting point is in the middle of the two inner most houses. I didn't realize that this is median until I saw the solution. (And after I saw the solution, it's clear because median solves for the optimal problem of sum of absolute values). 
        * Once I found that I can get the optimal positions for each row, I went out to see if I can get the optimal meeting location for all rows.
        * I put several rows in a grid, and consider different cases where some row has optimal locations on left, some has on right, some has overlapped locations with other rows, etc. 
        * I couldn't figure out how to combine the results for different rows into one location for the full grid. (This is probably because I didn't realize it's the median!)
    4. I then spent time thinking about the change of distance when we move from one grid point to another and tried to find some pattern here.
        * One pattern I found is that when I move in the same row, the change of distance from all houses to location `(i,j)` can be computed from location `(i, j-1)`, as the x-component of distances are the same as before, only y-component changed. 
        * This is true because the new location doesn't change the row, but move 1 position to the right. I just need add 1 for all the houses to the left of current location, and subtract 1 for all the houses to the right of current location.
        * One thing I found out is that I don't have to limit this to the houses on the same row, I can actually apply this to houses in different rows, but only apply to the y-coordinates. This actually passed the test cases.
    5. I soon realized that I can treat x-coordinates and y-coordinates separately, i.e. find the optimal row and optimal col separately and combine them to get the optimal location. 
        * This helps simplify the problem a lot, I can just focus on solving 1 dimension only now.
        * As I also learned that I can process all the houses from different rows/columns at one time, instead of processing them row by row. So I first count how many houses on each row and col index have, since  on a given row index, the calculation for houses on different columns are the same with respect to a location.
        * So I split the calculations into two parts: one for row, another for column. 
        * For each row position, I compute the x-distance of all houses to it and find the minimum row location. Similarly for the column position.
        * The sum of the minimum row and column distances are the minimum of the final result.

2. How did I or Other people get the solution? 


3. Different solutions




4. Mistakes

5. Problem Type
    *

6. Similar Problems



7. Template



Resources:
* [296. Best Meeting Point][LeetCode Link]

[LeetCode Link]: https://leetcode.com/problems/best-meeting-point/