---
title: "Hashing"
date: 2021-05-24
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - hash
  - summary
---

1. Hash generation in constant time `O(1)`
    1. Rolling Hash: Rabin-Karp algorithm is used to perform a multiple pattern search in a linear time and with a moderate memory consumption suitable for the large strings.
        1. The basic idea is to convert the string to an integer array (where the integers are bounded, e.g. a DNA sequence of A,C,G,T can be converted to an array of 0,1,2,3). Then the sequence can be considered as a number in a numeral system with the base 4 and hashed as:
        ```
        h = \sum c_i 4^i, i is from 0 to the length L of each substring
        ```
        2. Now when we slide the window of `L` through the sequence, we can update the hash in a constant time.
    2. You can also use bitmask if possible
        1. For example, in a DNA sequence, `A->00=0, C->01=1, G->10=2, T->11=3`, so there are at most two digits for each character
        2. We start from a bitmask of `0`, to create a hash for a sequence, we shift left two bits, and put the current character's bits to the right end. Continue this for the length L of the substring.
            ```
            dna_hash = dna_hash << 2
            dna_hash |= nums[j]
            ```
        3. When we slide the window of `L` through the sequence, we can just discard (set them to zeroes) the left-most two bits, and add the new character into the right-most two bits. This is `O(1)` operation.

2. Generate a hash from an array
    ```
    # visited is an array with values of 0 and 1
    def createKey(visited) {
        int key = 0;
        for i, v in enumerate(visited):
            if (!v):   
                key |= 1 << i  #set i-th bit to 1
        }
        return key
    }

    ```
    * You can also start with an integer, and change its value during loop of `visited` using bit operations to get the key.

3. General Hash Methods
    1. MD5: The MD5 message-digest algorithm is a widely used hash function producing a 128-bit hash value.
    2. SHA-2 (Secure Hash Algorithm 2):  is a set of cryptographic hash functions. The SHA-2 family consists of six hash functions with digests (hash values) that are 224, 256, 384 or 512 bits: SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384, SHA-512, SHA-512/224, SHA-512/256.

4. Time complexity of hash set in python
    1. Check if a value is in the set/dict: The average case is `O(1)`, but if there are many collisions, the worst case is `O(n)`

[LC1062. Longest Repeating Substring]: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-repeating-substring/
[LC187. Repeated DNA Sequences]: https://leetcode.com/problems/repeated-dna-sequences/